
All files are copyright 2017 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research 
and subject to licensing terms in LICENSE.txt.

* ./MCALT_T1.nii
  T1-weighted template image. See README.txt for more detailed methods 
descriptions for this and all included files.

* ./LICENSE.txt
  Contains licensing information for this release

* ./README.txt
  Contains release information, methods descriptions, funding, and citation 
information for this release

* ./MCALT_tpm.nii
  Tissue priors maps: 4D nifti file containing 6 classes:
    * Gray Matter
    * White Matter
    * CSF
    * Dura/Skull/Soft-tissue
    * Skull/Soft-tissue
    * Air
  This file is suitable for direct use as a tissue prior map (TPM) in SPM12 
Unified Segmentation. Please see the included source code (/src directory) for 
our recommended method.

* ./MCALT_brainmask.nii
  A mask of MCALT voxels that contain primarily brain tissue (gray matter or 
white matter).

* ./MCALT_TIVmask.nii
  A mask of MCALT voxels that exist inside the cranial vault, i.e. the total 
intracranial volume.

* ./MCALT_T1_05mm.nii
  A higher-resolution (0.5mm) version of MCALT space. This is not the version 
on which all MCALT atlases were drawn and defined (MCALT_T1.nii). We created 
this version later, intended primarily for visualizations. It is possible to 
use this 0.5mm version for atlas propagation, but this has not been rigorously 
tested. To create this image, the same 202 (~1mm T1-weighted) MRI as in the 
standard MCALT template were coregistered using buildTemplateParallel.sh from 
the ANTs package, using a copy of MCALT_T1.nii up-sampled to 0.5mm as a rigid 
reference target. A single warp (masked to prioritize matching brain voxels) 
was then calculated between the generated 0.5mm template image and the standard 
(1.5mm) MCALT_T1.nii. This final warp improved the voxel-wise correspondence 
between the template versions, thus making it possible to consider this new 
image to be in the same voxel "space" as MCALT, rather than a new and 
incompatible template space. All 202 scans were warped via the transforms 
generated by buildTemplateParallel concatenated with the final warp across 
templates, then averaged, to create the final MCALT_T1_05mm.nii

* ./atlas
    Directory containing various atlases included with this release. All 
atlases are drawn with somewhat liberal boundaries in non-brain regions to 
allow for some imprecision in localization. When propagating these atlases onto 
subject scans via nonlinear registration, we recommend that tissue-class 
segmentations of the subject scan be used to remove voxels segmented as 
non-brain prior to calculating regional summary statistics.

* ./atlas/MCALT_ADIR122.nii
* ./atlas/MCALT_ADIR122.txt
  MCALT_ADIR122 is the main anatomical atlas contained in this release. It is 
primarily designed as a gray matter atlas (MCALT_Lobar is recommended for white 
matter applications). Many of the regions are roughly based on the Automated 
Anatomical Labeling (AAL) atlas, but region boundaries were completely redrawn 
to match MCALT_T1 anatomy, and some new regions were split/added to match 
internal ADIR lab analysis needs. The atlas is formatted as a single 3D volume 
where each region is defined by a single intensity value. The region names 
corresponding to each intensity value are defined in the corresponding .txt 
file.

* ./atlas/MCALT_ADIR42.nii
* ./atlas/MCALT_ADIR42.txt
  MCALT_ADIR42 is derived from ADIR122 and is a coarser re-parcellation of the 
same set of labelled voxels. It is designed for analyses where ADIR122 regions 
are too small. The atlas is formatted as a single 3D volume where each region 
is defined by a single intensity value. The region names corresponding to each 
intensity value are defined in the corresponding .txt file.

* ./atlas/MCALT_Lobar.txt
* ./atlas/MCALT_Lobar.nii
  MCALT_Lobar is an atlas of gray and white matter roughly parcellated into 
lobes of the brain. It is uniquely drawn, and not derived from MCALT_ADIR122. 
The atlas is formatted as a single 3D volume where each region is defined by a 
single intensity value. The region names corresponding to each intensity value 
are defined in the corresponding .txt file.

* ./atlas/MCALT_GlobalPiB.txt
* ./atlas/MCALT_GlobalPiB.nii
  MCALT_GlobalPiB is derived from ADIR122 and contains the regions used in our 
"GlobalPiB" ROI used to define amyloid-positivity from amyloid PET scans. The 
target "GlobalPiB" ROI is a composite of the prefrontal, orbitofrontal, 
parietal, temporal, anterior cingulate, and posterior cingulate/precuneus 
regions. The reference region is a composite of the Cerebellum_Crus1 and 
Cerebellum_Crus2 regions. The region names corresponding to each intensity 
value are defined in the corresponding .txt file.

* ./atlas/MCALT_pathologyAtlas_4D.txt
* ./atlas/MCALT_pathologyAtlas_4D.nii
  MCALT_pathologyAtlas_4D is an atlas for the correlation of imaging and 
pathologic findings in Alzheimer's Disease. It is a 4-dimensional atlas in 
MCALT space, where each volume defines a region of autopsy-sampled tissue. The 
region names corresponding to each volume are defined in the corresponding .txt 
file. This atlas has been previously described in the following publication, 
which we request that you cite if you use it in your work: M. R. Raman, C. G. 
Schwarz, M. E. Murray, V. J. Lowe, D. W. Dickson, C. R. Jack, and K. Kantarci, 
“An MRI-Based Atlas for Correlation of Imaging and Pathologic Findings in 
Alzheimer’s Disease,” J. Neuroimaging, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 264–268, 2016.
  
* ./atlas/MCALT_MTL_nogo.nii
  MCALT_MTL_nogo is a mask designed primarily to remove misclassified adjacent 
regions of gray-matter-isointense dura from medial temporal lobe (MTL) 
segmentations. It contains non-brain voxels, proximal to the medial temporal 
regions, that SPM12 segmentations can sometimes misclassify as brain despite 
their being labelled as non-brain in our MCALT_tpm. For better segmentation 
accuracy, we recommend that this mask be applied after segmentation to set any 
contained voxels as non-GM and non-WM. We typically apply this mask to improve 
segmentation results in native space. It may also be reasonable to apply this 
mask to segmentations in template space, but we have not tested it for that use.

* ./src/MCALT_spm12_segment.m
  This file contains matlab source code to perform SPM12 unified segmentation 
(tissue-class probabilities, bias correction, and normalization to MCALT space) 
using MCALT tissue priors and our modified segmentation method/settings that 
are optimized for older adults age 30+. Regional gray matter volumes measured 
using this segmentation method have larger AUROC values than standard SPM12 
pipelines when comparing between matched groups of amyloid-positive 
cognitively-impaired and amyloid-negative cognitively-unimpaired subjects. See 
the source code comments MCALT_Segmentation_Poster.pdf for more information.

* ./src/MCALT_spm12_segment_job.m
  This file contains additional source code used by MCALT_spm12_segment.m 
(above)

* ./src/patch_spm_preproc_run.patch
  MCALT_spm12_segment.m requires a modification to the spm_preproc_run.m file 
that is included with SPM12. This modification allows the segmentation to be 
continued for further iterations after modifying its parameters (e.g. adding a 
second WM Gaussian). This .patch file shows how to perform the necessary 
modification. It can be applied using the unix/linux 'patch' utility.

